Brother Jeffrey Jackson will discuss the theme, don't be surprised by sudden changes.
Brother Jeff, you have a attention.
Well, I'm sure we all agree with this fact.
In recent years, there have been a lot of changes.
Even since the last annual meeting, there have been many changes.
Some of them, perhaps, are little surprising or may seem to be sudden.
But you know, brothers and sisters, when we look back on how these changes have come,
we can see the job has gradually prepared us for each of these adjustments and changes.
Let's review some of the recent changes we've had.
What changes have we seen with regard to our understanding of Bible teachings?
At the 2021 annual meeting, we received an adjusted understanding of John 529.
It was explained that the resurrection of judgment will not be a judgment of condemnation.
Rather, it will be more like a period of probation.
The unrighteous mention at Acts 24-15 will have an opportunity to gain everlasting life.
But their names will not be written in the book of life at the time of their resurrection.
To have their names eventually written in that book, these ones will need to respond positively
to the great educational work that will take place during the thousand-year reign.
Then, at the annual meeting in 2023, we gained enhanced insight into what we do know
and what we don't know concerning Jehovah's judgments.
We learned that the door of opportunity for people to take a stand for the kingdom
does not shut when the Great Tribulation starts with the destruction of false religion.
At that time, perhaps some will be like the Egyptians in Moses' day,
who took a last-minute stand and joined the Exodus of God's people.
At the same annual meeting, we adjusted our views with regard to Jehovah's judgments
of those who died in the flood and those who were destroyed in Sodom and Gomorrah.
Also, at that annual meeting, an adjustment was made regarding the reporting of our time
and activity and our preaching work.
Instead of focusing on reports, we tried to make good use of every opportunity to witness.
Then we received the 2024 governing body update, number two.
In that update, we saw the need to adjust how we interact with those who have committed serious sins
and have been removed from the congregation.
What other major adjustments have we recently seen?
In our preaching work, the emphasis now is on studying Bible studies and making disciples,
not on distributing literature.
To that end, the focus is on studying meaningful conversations,
not just on using memorized presentations.
Were you surprised by these adjustments? Perhaps so.
But as we look back, we see how one adjustment in understanding
gradually helped us with the next adjustment.
Isn't it true that gradually Jehovah has prepared us?
And when we look back on it, we see how logical this training has been to refine our understanding.
But events in the world likewise have changed.
It's true sometimes in the world you have sudden changes, for example, the pandemic.
But oftentimes, change in the world is gradual.
Isn't it true with regard to the view of morality, homosexuality, abortion?
Even what's acceptable and not acceptable with regard to conduct.
All of that has happened gradually in the world.
And it's not until you look back and see how different the world is today with regard to those matters
that we see that there have been a lot of changes.
But this can be dangerous.
Because as things gradually change, we may get used to gradual change
and forget that there are some sudden changes about to occur.
Let's take our Bible, please.
And if you turn with me to the book of Luke chapter 21.
Now, this is an example of sudden change.
In Luke chapter 21, notice there in verse 34, the words of our Lord Jesus have recorded.
And He said in verse 34,
but pay attention to yourselves that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy drinking
and anxieties of life.
And suddenly, suddenly, that they be instantly, instantly upon you.
It's interesting to note that Jesus had already said that this day He was referring to
would occur at a time that we don't think is likely.
So what lesson do we learn from what Jesus said?
It's a warning, isn't it?
That we can't just sit back and think, well, things are gradually going to develop.
We know which way it's going.
And maybe it's not going to happen yet.
We've got a little bit more wiggle room there with regard to the schedule.
But you see, that's dangerous thinking.
Now, what we're going to do is consider two examples of areas where perhaps we could be a little guilty with regard to that.
For example, our view with regard to the number of anointed ones remaining on the earth.
Now, for many years, what did we think?
We thought, well, that number would go down and down and down and down.
Now, I don't know about you, but me.
When that report came out, just how many, how many partakers?
And what were we thinking?
Well, probably, maybe we didn't say it, but we think the number will go down, down, down, down, down.
And there'll be just a couple of old guys in a wheelchair.
Who will get that reward?
Well, I'm exaggerating, but that was sort of the feeling, wasn't it?
But now, what have we seen in recent years?
Those numbers have gone up and up.
And not only that younger brothers have been appointed on the governing body.
Now, I know what you're all thinking to nuance, how old are they?
We know you're not Googling now, but you will be.
You see, we need to be careful about what we're thinking with regard to the number of unknown ones left on earth.
You see, 19 years ago, I was appointed on the governing body, even I thought I was too young.
Now, they tell me I'm not so young anymore.
But do we see the point, what does the Bible actually tell us with regard to this?
Well, it doesn't say the number would just dwindle down to just having a few older ones left.
No. The great crowd of other sheep will be judged on the basis of how they deal with Christ's brothers.
So that means the faithful and discreet slave, as well as all the anointed throughout the earth,
will continue to be active in doing the work and wanting and needing your support.
Try it up until the time that suddenly they will be reassigned.
And isn't that what Matthew 24 verse 31 says?
There will be a gathering, the final gathering of the anointed from all different parts of the earth.
So for us to think, well, there's some ones on the governing body, they don't look too old.
Maybe we've got a little bit extra time.
Now, Jehovah is making sure that the faithful and discreet slave is continuing to work
and is effective right up until that time of reassignment.
So that's one subject.
The second subject we'd like to talk about is our view with regard to the start of the great tribulation,
with the destruction of Babylon the Great.
We look through the scriptures in Revelation chapter 16.
What does it tell us that the waters would gradually dry up?
Yes, churches are losing support in some countries, for example, Europe.
It wasn't that long ago that most nations in Europe were very religious,
but now people are turning their backs on religion.
But at the same time, when we look at Africa and South America,
we see that religion still has a strong influence.
So now, what could be that little voice in our mind saying?
Well, yeah, we see it's going in the right direction, but maybe not just yet.
We've got a little bit more time left.
But again, we need to remember what the scriptures tell us.
And if you turn with me this time, please, to Revelation chapter 17.
This is one of the chapters that describes the destruction of false religion,
or in other words, when the Great Tribulation starts.
So let's read Revelation 17 and verse 17, and note, please, what it tells us.
For God put it into their hearts to carry out His thought,
yes, to carry out their one thought by giving the kingdom to the wild beast
until the words of God will have been accomplished.
Now, what is this one thought?
Well, up to now, we've said the one thought is their desire to turn on false religion.
And we can understand that because the context is talking about the destruction of false religion.
But you see, if you look back at that verse, what is the one thought?
Now, this means we have to adjust our understanding, another change.
What does it say?
The one thought refers to the nations being willing to hand over power,
their political power, to the scarlet colored wild beast, the United Nations.
Let me repeat it, because you're in shock now, and you need to write this down.
The one thought refers to the nations being willing to hand over power to the United Nations.
Now, why is that exciting?
Well, the fact that nations will eventually turn on religion really isn't that surprising.
Gradually, we've seen that happening.
We say, yes, we see which way it's going.
But what about nations empowering the United Nations, handing over their personal political power
so that the United Nations has more power?
It has teeth, as it were.
At the moment, it's like a toothless, toothless organization, isn't it?
That seems unbelievable.
No nation does that.
But what is it that happens?
It is an act of God.
Jehovah puts that one thought into the minds of the nations.
Yes, they will empower the United Nations so that the United Nations will be in a position to take action against false religion.
Now, this adjustment in understanding also means that we have to adjust our understanding of verses 12 and 13.
So if you're in Revelation 17, please let's look at verses 12 and 13.
The ten horns that you saw mean ten kings who have not yet received the kingdom.
They do receive authority as kings for one hour with a wild beast.
These have one thought so they give their power and authority to the wild beast.
So up to now, we've assumed these ten kings, which represent all the political powers and governments in the world at the moment,
that they did this during the last days by supporting, first of all, the League of Nations and then the United Nations.
But now, what do we understand this to be?
See, we understand verse 17.
Well, there will come a time when all political powers on earth, which includes many who have never been part of the seven world powers,
they will see that they need to collectively pull their power by giving it to the United Nations to try and solve some of the problems in the world.
And they will rule notice, what does this say, for one hour, just a short period of time.
So this newly empowered United Nations from that time on will rule collectively for a short time, but it will enable them to destroy false religion and fight against Jesus and Jehovah's people.
Now, isn't that exciting?
Now, we're back to our subject again. You see, gradually things happen.
So we might say, well, yes, gradually I see battle on the greats losing influence in some places, maybe not yet.
But don't expect that you see governments gradually wanting to give over power.
They don't want to do that. It takes an act of God.
Jehovah will put it into their hearts.
This will occur with suddenness. Yes, then the Great Tribulation will start.
A sudden change, not something that happens gradually.
So what have we learned in our discussion? Well, yes, some things change gradually.
But brothers and sisters, remember, there are some sudden things that are about to occur.
Let's remember the two things as a reminder. First of all, the remaining anointed ones will suddenly be taken to heaven while they are still very active.
The second one, Jehovah will suddenly move the nations to give their political power to the United Nations.
So what's the takeaway? Don't be complacent. Don't think, oh, this is going to gradually change.
No, some things won't gradually change. They will occur suddenly as acts of God.
So be ready and don't be surprised by sudden change.